is an unlikely hero to people many many
years younger than he's a leading
candidate for the Democratic nomination
and he's doing it all without a super
PAC or a comb please welcome the senator
from Vermont Bernie Sanders
[Applause]
[Music]
my foot I appreciate your being there
did you um were you at all worried that
the enthusiasm would not be there the
second time around oh no you were not
did you watch the Muller testimony
yesterday I was in a plane but I read it
you read the whole thing yeah well not
the whole thing but to somebody you know
what happened and you probably probably
happened as you expected you ever did
you I wonder if you will looked at any
of that and wish that you had been there
in that spot because you really I feel
like you would have sold that report you
know it's one thing to write it it's
another thing to perform I think the
bottom line is the message from mullah
is that the Russians intervened in the
campaign in 2016 they are still
intervening and we've got to stop that
whatever your political view is you want
to make sure that the election in the
United States is controlled by the
people of this country not the Russians
or anybody else that seems very obvious
and it seems like something that would
be embraced by both parties but it can't
even get a vote in the Senate the
Republicans have stopped it we got an
incredible IC today that's right we're
done credibly do nothing Senate which
seems to be spending all of the time
worrying about the wealthy and the
powerful and ignoring the important
issues facing why won't it even get me
just yeah go ahead yeah you know we
cannot even get a serious discussion
about the existential threat to this
planet of climate change no discussion
go because I will tell you what and it
is because these guys are owned by the
fossil fuel industry which is more
concerned about their short-term profits
than the future of this planet and
that's the simple truth
can't we just out spend the fossil fuel
people if it's a money issue I mean you
can't you can look it's the fossil fuel
industry makes tens of billions of
dollars a year you got people like the
Koch brothers who have already
contributed hundreds and hundreds of
millions of dollars to the political
process but it's not just them
you got Wall Street putting in huge
amounts of money into the political
process you got the drug companies to
charge us the highest prices in the
world
you got the insurance companies you got
the military
darío complex and in fact you know Jimmy
what our campaign is about really is
saying that we need a political
revolution in this country where instead
of having a government run by these
large multinational corporations and the
1% maybe just maybe we may want a
government an economy that works for all
of us and not just them you know we have
a list of things to worry about but if
the climate on this planet it makes it
uninhabitable for other human beings
none of the stuff on the list matter
you're right I mean you're right and as
you know what the scientists are telling
us we have less than 12 years to act
boldly in transforming our energy system
away from fossil fuel to energy
efficiency and sustainable energy or
else they will be irreparable damage
done to this country and the rest of the
world and yet you got these people at
the fossil fuel industry who are much
more concerned about their short-term
profits than the future of this planet
which is nuts cuz they just have to live
on this planet and children are gonna
have to live on this planet but at the
end of the day frankly it is not just
the fossil fuel industry it is Wall
Street whose greed has done irreparable
harm to this country it is all of these
powerful special interest tools just
greed is destroying the working class of
this country you know we have a
situation in America today where you got
three people you know we don't talk
about this in Congress we don't talk
about it in the media you got three
people who own more wealth than the
bottom half of the American people got
the top 1% owning more wealth in the
bottom ninety two percent and yet we are
the only major country on earth not to
guarantee health care to all people as a
right and by the way thank you very much
for the work you've done and making sure
that help
it seems obvious that we should make
sure people have have health care it's
obvious to you it is obvious to me it is
obvious to most people yet we have then
gotta ask ourselves why is that we are
the only major country on earth not to
guarantee health care to all people why
over 80 million people are uninsured or
underinsured why one out of five
Americans cannot afford the medicine
that they need because the price of
prescription drugs is so high why is
that why is it and the answer is it gets
back to the power and the greed of these
major multinational corporations who
could care less about working people I
know this is not an issue we talked
about much but it is an issue finally as
a nation that we're gonna have to deal
with yeah and and it is an issue that
most of the citizens of this country
agree on and when they're not being
bamboozled then they think about it they
think about their neighbors and their
family members they say yeah I do want
to have coverage for my children until
they're 26 years old your proposal and
correct me if I have any of this wrong
Medicare for all with the one thing that
makes it different from some of your
fellow candidates is that you want to
get a writ do away with private
insurance altogether yes now I worry
that that that twist makes it an
impossible sell for no people I don't
think so I think it's exactly what the
American people want in polling suggests
that here is the bottom line at the end
of the day we have to make a decision do
we have a health care system as exists
virtually in every other major country
whose major function is to provide
quality care to all people as a right or
do we continue with the system we have
right now which is designed to do what
everybody knows what it is what is the
function of the insurance companies it's
to make as much money as they can what
is the function of the drug companies
last year the top 10 drug companies made
69 billion dollars in profit and they're
charging us 10 times more than the
Canadians for insulin that people in
this country need and ultimately we have
to make that determination do we expand
Medicare which is a good and popular
program for seniors to all people or do
we continue a dysfunctional and
expensive system designed to make
billions for the health care industry
you are taking a busload of
of people with diabetes correct to
Canada for what reason mr. food supposed
to the world no it is happy it's fun to
go to I live near Canada it's a fun
place to go but this trip this trip is
not what this trip is about is to expose
the insanity of people in America being
forced to pay ten times more for insulin
as our neighbors in Canada and that has
everything to do with the greed of the
pharmaceutical industry it has
everything to do with the fact that we
are the only major country not to
negotiate prices with the drug companies
they could double the triple the price
of medicine tomorrow there's no law to
stop it and you know why because they
have made hundreds of millions of
dollars in campaign contributions
billions of dollars in lobbying and the
Congress does what they want not what
the American people want so we're going
to expose them if elected president and
we if we pass Medicare for all nobody in
this country will pay more than $200 for
the prescription drugs they need and we
will substantially lower the cost of
medicine in this country for everybody
senator Bernie Sanders you see senator
Sanders I think the most important thing
we talked about a lot of important
things but most importantly what are you
going to do to help ASAP rocky get out
of Sweden cardi B is one of your support
what is he yes yes you know her I know
her yeah you know we have talked on the
phone
on several occasions really smart and
she is deeply concerned about what's
happened she does seem to be concerned
doesn't she is which is it's a little
bit surprising
maybe yeah yeah but you know that's the
truth she comes from a humble background
and he knows what it's like to live in
poverty to struggle you know if they
struggle and she wants to make sure that
we can improve life for working people
in this country and I'm delighted that
she is a supportive have you ever been
on Etsy the website okay so this is a
craft of website people make things and
then they sell them and a lot of the
things they make are about you are like
you're on like 5,000 products none of
which you're profiting from I'm sure
and these are real things where these
are not things we made up as a joke like
this is I don't know what's happening
here but seem to be on an all Burnie
volleyball team playing with the moon
there's a I guess people are kind of
tickled with the idea of you and battle
running together there's a Back to the
Future parody
this is a good one this is a bird of
birdy sanders I guess you've probably
seen that logo before you know what
that's about you me what's that about
that's about a bird landed on a podium I
think we were in Portland and right
nowhere this little bird ends up on the
podium and just this damn so some people
thought this was a spiritual thing right
yeah a heavenly speaking of spiritual
things they've got there's a candle
that's a saint or though they should
have gone with Saint Bernard there and I
don't know what this is exactly but I'd
love to see you in it I'm gonna give
this one to your wife as a little
take-home item so you're getting uh
you're getting cheated a lot of money
there you know Trump wouldn't let that
happen he'd get a cut of all of that no
no no do you relish in the idea of
debating Donald Trump not only debating
him but defeating him he is the most
dangerous
look you know I have Republicans
Republican friends who I disagree with
but what Trump is trying to do is
unprecedented and extremely ugly he is
trying to divide our country up based on
the color of our skin or where we came
from or our religion or our sexual
orientation and that is not what a
president of the United States should do
and it will give me great pleasure to
defeat this president and create a
government of compassion and of love
rather than just of hatred in the
business
put this one out because your slogan
does seem correct to be a shot at Donald
Trump it's not me us that is your
campaign slogan
now let me ask just a quick question is
it smart to put the words not me
in your to us gets in the corner of the
t-shirt or something it's not
necessarily a wise idea well what it
means is two things
it means Jimmy that we are all in this
together and that what a president of
the United States has got to be about is
not only bringing people together but
understand that your family has to be
got to be concerned about her family
we've got to be concerned about each
other and the second point of that is
that the only way we take on powerful
special interests is when millions of
people stand up and say enough is enough
that the 1% cannot have it all that we
need a country that belongs and a
government that works for everybody and
no person to wake up we need to wake up
and get our heads out of our tell afraid
anybody who thinks you know that it's
time to give up in despair and just not
get involved this is not that moment you
know we are a democracy although Trump
is trying to undermine that and what a
democracy means is that the future of
this country rests in your hands in your
hands and the hands of hundreds of
millions of people we cannot sit this
one out
the future of the country is it's like
the future of the planet is at stake we
got to stand up we got to fight back
next week a lot of people running for
the nomination you'll be debating you'll
be on stage with Elizabeth Warren your
friend is it productive for Democrats to
be going after each other in the way
that for instance senator Harris went
after Joe Biden well look you know
people our campaign is about differences
of ideas and I think there is nothing
wrong with us talking about our vision
for the future what our record is how it
differs from somebody else that's called
politics what is not acceptable or ugly
personal attacks and trying to destroy
people's character that is not
acceptable so I hope that
what the debate will be and what the
campaign will be about is about
discussing the very serious issues
facing the American people whether it is
climate change whether it is you know 45
million Americans dealing with student
debt whether it is the fact that we are
the only country not to guarantee health
care to all people these are issues that
need serious discussion people may
disagree let's have that discussion but
let's not get into personal attacks
senator Bernie Sanders I wanna thank you
very much I am Jimmy Kimmel I hope you
enjoyed that video hit subscribe and all
your dreams will come true assuming your
dreams are to watch more YouTube videos